projects/ngxsmk-gatekeeper/src/lib/zero-trust/README.md, before:

# Zero Trust Enforcement Mode

## Overview

Zero Trust Mode enforces a security model where **every route and HTTP request must explicitly opt in** with middleware configuration. By default, access is **denied** unless explicitly allowed.

This mode is designed for **enterprise applications** where security is paramount and you need to ensure that no route or API endpoint is accidentally left unprotected.

## Key Principles

1. **Default Deny**: All routes and requests are denied by default
2. **Explicit Opt-In**: Every route/request must have middleware configured
3. **Public Routes Must Declare**: Public routes must explicitly use `publicMiddleware()`
4. **No Silent Failures**: Missing middleware configuration results in explicit denial

## How It Works

### Routes

1. Routes **without** `canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard]` are automatically denied
2. Routes **with** the guard but **no middleware configuration** are denied
3. Routes **must** explicitly configure middleware (global, route-level, or `publicMiddleware()`)

### HTTP Requests

1. Requests **without** middleware configuration are denied
2. Requests **must** explicitly configure middleware (global, request-level, or `publicMiddleware()`)

## Configuration

Enable zero trust mode in your `GatekeeperConfig`:

```typescript
import { provideGatekeeper } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';

provideGatekeeper({
  middlewares: [], // No default middleware - each route must opt in
  onFail: '/unauthorized',
  zeroTrust: true, // Enable zero trust mode
});
```

## Usage Examples

### Protected Routes

Protected routes must explicitly configure authentication/authorization middleware:

```typescript
import { gatekeeperGuard } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { createAuthMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/middlewares';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'dashboard',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [createAuthMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
  {
    path: 'admin',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createAuthMiddleware(),
          createRoleMiddleware({ roles: ['admin'] }),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### Public Routes

Public routes must explicitly declare using `publicMiddleware()`:

```typescript
import { gatekeeperGuard } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { publicMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/zero-trust';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'about',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()], // Explicitly public
      },
    },
  },
  {
    path: 'contact',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()], // Explicitly public
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### HTTP Requests

HTTP requests must explicitly configure middleware:

```typescript
import { withGatekeeper } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { createAuthMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/middlewares';
import { publicMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/zero-trust';

// Protected API request
http.get('/api/user/profile', {
  context: withGatekeeper([createAuthMiddleware()]),
});

// Public API request
http.get('/api/public/news', {
  context: withGatekeeper([publicMiddleware()]),
});
```

## Enterprise Best Practices

### 1. Use Route-Level Middleware

For fine-grained control, configure middleware at the route level:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'billing',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createAuthMiddleware(),
          permissionMiddleware(['billing.read']),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### 2. Combine with Audit Logging

Enable audit logging to track all access decisions:

```typescript
import { ConsoleAuditSink } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/audit';

provideGatekeeper({
  middlewares: [],
  onFail: '/unauthorized',
  zeroTrust: true,
  audit: {
    sinks: new ConsoleAuditSink(),
  },
});
```

### 3. Use Policies for Complex Authorization

For complex authorization logic, use the policy engine:

```typescript
import { createPolicyMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/policies';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'reports',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createPolicyMiddleware({ policyName: 'canAccessReports' }),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### 4. Minimize Public Routes

Use `publicMiddleware()` sparingly and only for truly public content:

```typescript
// ✅ Good: Public marketing pages
{
  path: 'about',
  data: {
    gatekeeper: {
      middlewares: [publicMiddleware()],
    },
  },
}

// ❌ Bad: Don't use publicMiddleware for user-facing routes
// Use authentication middleware instead
```

### 5. Document Your Security Model

Document which routes are public and why:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  // Public: Marketing pages (no authentication required)
  {
    path: 'about',
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
  // Protected: User dashboard (authentication required)
  {
    path: 'dashboard',
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [createAuthMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

## Migration Guide

### From Default Mode to Zero Trust

1. **Enable zero trust mode**:
   ```typescript
   provideGatekeeper({
     middlewares: [],
     onFail: '/unauthorized',
     zeroTrust: true,
   });
   ```

2. **Add middleware to all routes**:
   - Protected routes: Add authentication/authorization middleware
   - Public routes: Add `publicMiddleware()`

3. **Add middleware to all HTTP requests**:
   - Protected requests: Add authentication/authorization middleware
   - Public requests: Add `publicMiddleware()`

4. **Test thoroughly**:
   - Verify all routes have middleware
   - Verify all API requests have middleware
   - Check audit logs for any denied access

## Troubleshooting

### Route Denied: "Zero Trust Mode: Route does not have explicit middleware configuration"

**Solution**: Add middleware configuration to the route:

```typescript
{
  path: 'my-route',
  canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
  data: {
    gatekeeper: {
      middlewares: [/* your middleware here */],
    },
  },
}
```

### Request Denied: "Zero Trust Mode: Request does not have explicit middleware configuration"

**Solution**: Add middleware configuration to the HTTP request:

```typescript
http.get('/api/endpoint', {
  context: withGatekeeper([/* your middleware here */]),
});
```

### Empty Middleware Array After Resolution

**Solution**: Ensure your middleware configuration is valid and resolves to at least one middleware:

```typescript
// Check that middleware is properly configured
const middlewares = [createAuthMiddleware()];
// Ensure middlewares array is not empty
```

## Security Considerations

1. **No Silent Failures**: Zero trust mode ensures that missing middleware configuration results in explicit denial, preventing accidental exposure of protected resources.

2. **Explicit Public Declaration**: Public routes must explicitly declare using `publicMiddleware()`, making it clear which routes are intentionally public.

3. **Audit Trail**: Combine with audit logging to maintain a complete record of all access decisions.

4. **Policy-Based Authorization**: Use the policy engine for complex authorization logic that can be centrally managed and audited.

## Summary

Zero Trust Mode provides a security model where:

- ✅ Every route and request must explicitly opt in
- ✅ Default behavior is deny
- ✅ Public routes must declare `publicMiddleware()`
- ✅ No accidental exposure of protected resources
- ✅ Complete audit trail of access decisions

This mode is ideal for enterprise applications where security is paramount and you need to ensure comprehensive protection of all routes and API endpoints.

Commit message:

docs: Add initial project README and module-specific documentation for compliance, marketplace, and zero-trust modules.

projects/ngxsmk-gatekeeper/src/lib/zero-trust/README.md, after:

# Zero Trust Enforcement Mode

## Overview

Zero Trust Mode enforces a security model where **every route and HTTP request must explicitly opt in** with middleware configuration. By default, access is **denied** unless explicitly allowed.

This mode is designed for **enterprise applications** where security is paramount and you need to ensure that no route or API endpoint is accidentally left unprotected.

## Key Principles

1. **Default Deny**: All routes and requests are denied by default
2. **Explicit Opt-In**: Every route/request must have middleware configured
3. **Public Routes Must Declare**: Public routes must explicitly use `publicMiddleware()`
4. **No Silent Failures**: Missing middleware configuration results in explicit denial

## How It Works

### Routes

1. Routes **without** `canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard]` are automatically denied
2. Routes **with** the guard but **no middleware configuration** are denied
3. Routes **must** explicitly configure middleware (global, route-level, or `publicMiddleware()`)

### HTTP Requests

1. Requests **without** middleware configuration are denied
2. Requests **must** explicitly configure middleware (global, request-level, or `publicMiddleware()`)

## Configuration

Enable zero trust mode in your `GatekeeperConfig`:

```typescript
import { provideGatekeeper } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';

provideGatekeeper({
  middlewares: [], // No default middleware - each route must opt in
  onFail: '/unauthorized',
  zeroTrust: true, // Enable zero trust mode
});
```

## Usage Examples

### Protected Routes

Protected routes must explicitly configure authentication/authorization middleware:

```typescript
import { gatekeeperGuard } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { createAuthMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/middlewares';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'dashboard',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [createAuthMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
  {
    path: 'admin',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createAuthMiddleware(),
          createRoleMiddleware({ roles: ['admin'] }),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### Public Routes

Public routes must explicitly declare using `publicMiddleware()`:

```typescript
import { gatekeeperGuard } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { publicMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/zero-trust';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'about',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()], // Explicitly public
      },
    },
  },
  {
    path: 'contact',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()], // Explicitly public
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### HTTP Requests

HTTP requests must explicitly configure middleware:

```typescript
import { withGatekeeper } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper';
import { createAuthMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/middlewares';
import { publicMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/zero-trust';

// Protected API request
http.get('/api/user/profile', {
  context: withGatekeeper([createAuthMiddleware()]),
});

// Public API request
http.get('/api/public/news', {
  context: withGatekeeper([publicMiddleware()]),
});
```

## Enterprise Best Practices

### 1. Use Route-Level Middleware

For fine-grained control, configure middleware at the route level:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'billing',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createAuthMiddleware(),
          permissionMiddleware(['billing.read']),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### 2. Combine with Audit Logging

Enable audit logging to track all access decisions:

```typescript
import { ConsoleAuditSink } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/audit';

provideGatekeeper({
  middlewares: [],
  onFail: '/unauthorized',
  zeroTrust: true,
  audit: {
    sinks: new ConsoleAuditSink(),
  },
});
```

### 3. Use Policies for Complex Authorization

For complex authorization logic, use the policy engine:

```typescript
import { createPolicyMiddleware } from 'ngxsmk-gatekeeper/lib/policies';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'reports',
    canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [
          createPolicyMiddleware({ policyName: 'canAccessReports' }),
        ],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

### 4. Minimize Public Routes

Use `publicMiddleware()` sparingly and only for truly public content:

```typescript
// ✅ Good: Public marketing pages
{
  path: 'about',
  data: {
    gatekeeper: {
      middlewares: [publicMiddleware()],
    },
  },
}

// ❌ Bad: Don't use publicMiddleware for user-facing routes
// Use authentication middleware instead
```

### 5. Document Your Security Model

Document which routes are public and why:

```typescript
const routes: Routes = [
  // Public: Marketing pages (no authentication required)
  {
    path: 'about',
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [publicMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
  // Protected: User dashboard (authentication required)
  {
    path: 'dashboard',
    data: {
      gatekeeper: {
        middlewares: [createAuthMiddleware()],
      },
    },
  },
];
```

## Migration Guide

### From Default Mode to Zero Trust

1. **Enable zero trust mode**:
   ```typescript
   provideGatekeeper({
     middlewares: [],
     onFail: '/unauthorized',
     zeroTrust: true,
   });
   ```

2. **Add middleware to all routes**:
   - Protected routes: Add authentication/authorization middleware
   - Public routes: Add `publicMiddleware()`

3. **Add middleware to all HTTP requests**:
   - Protected requests: Add authentication/authorization middleware
   - Public requests: Add `publicMiddleware()`

4. **Test thoroughly**:
   - Verify all routes have middleware
   - Verify all API requests have middleware
   - Check audit logs for any denied access

## Troubleshooting

### Route Denied: "Zero Trust Mode: Route does not have explicit middleware configuration"

**Solution**: Add middleware configuration to the route:

```typescript
{
  path: 'my-route',
  canActivate: [gatekeeperGuard],
  data: {
    gatekeeper: {
      middlewares: [/* your middleware here */],
    },
  },
}
```

### Request Denied: "Zero Trust Mode: Request does not have explicit middleware configuration"

**Solution**: Add middleware configuration to the HTTP request:

```typescript
http.get('/api/endpoint', {
  context: withGatekeeper([/* your middleware here */]),
});
```

### Empty Middleware Array After Resolution

**Solution**: Ensure your middleware configuration is valid and resolves to at least one middleware:

```typescript
// Check that middleware is properly configured
const middlewares = [createAuthMiddleware()];
// Ensure middlewares array is not empty
```

### 6. Complement with Security Agent

Use the [Gatekeeper Agent](../agent/README.md) to monitor for configuration gaps or anomalies that might bypass your Zero Trust rules in real-time.

```typescript
provideGatekeeperAgent({
  mode: 'enforce',
  scanOnStartup: true
});
```

## Security Considerations

1. **No Silent Failures**: Zero trust mode ensures that missing middleware configuration results in explicit denial, preventing accidental exposure of protected resources.

2. **Explicit Public Declaration**: Public routes must explicitly declare using `publicMiddleware()`, making it clear which routes are intentionally public.

3. **Audit Trail**: Combine with audit logging to maintain a complete record of all access decisions.

4. **Policy-Based Authorization**: Use the policy engine for complex authorization logic that can be centrally managed and audited.

## Summary

Zero Trust Mode provides a security model where:

- ✅ Every route and request must explicitly opt in
- ✅ Default behavior is deny
- ✅ Public routes must declare `publicMiddleware()`
- ✅ No accidental exposure of protected resources
- ✅ Complete audit trail of access decisions

This mode is ideal for enterprise applications where security is paramount and you need to ensure comprehensive protection of all routes and API endpoints.
